# Finding Bug Bounty disclosure Programs
<font color="yellow"> A proposed standard which allows websites to define security policies. security.txt defines a standard to help organizations define the process for security researchers to disclose security vulnerabilities securely.</font>

It really is as simple as: When looking for a companies security contact make sure to check for https://example.com/.well-known/security.txt.

You can even automate scanning for this file to discover programs.
<hr>
Examples:

- [Amazon security.txt file](https://www.amazon.com/.well-known/security.txt)
- [Google security.txt file](https://www.google.com/.well-known/security.txt)
- [Stripe security.txt file](https://stripe.com/.well-known/security.txt)


# Bug Bounty Platforms
- HackerOne.com
- Bugcrowd.com
- YesWeHack.com
- Intigriti.com
- Synack.com




# Finding Your First Bug

Below are some tips and things you can try to help you in discovering your first bug.

## Don't try too much & set goals!
It is very easy to think of lots of different vulnerabilities to try and sometimes overlook the simple things. I've done it, we've all done it, and we'll all probably be carrying on doing it! Set yourself a goal as to what type of vulnerability it is you wish to find and spend time learning the ins and outs of your chosen target. The more you learn the more you'll begin to see it from a different view, a hacker's view.

Some example:
`The program has a wildcard scope with multiple domains in scop. Spend the day testing the login flow on each website that offers account functionality and test common login flow bugs such as oauth miscofigurations.`

`The program has a wildcard scope with multiple domains in scope. Don't just test their website from your country! Change your location and test different regions as sometimes a different codebase is used (different teams etc).`

`A lot of websites use robots.txt. Go and scan their robots.txt files from the past 5+ years using WayBackMachine. WayBackMachine has indexed old versions of websites and contains lots of valuable data.`

## Scan & find as much as possible
Old files exist on old servers, even on well-established public programs. Subdomains come up & down all the time. New files appear daily. Spend time to understand what's in scope and begin finding & mapping as much information as possible. Just because a subdomain shows you a 404 error, there may be an "admin.php" file on there, or it may appear online one day. Your ercon can never be complete and you should always be hunting with your overall aim to automate the scanning process.

## What's been disclosed
If the bug bounty program you've chosen to participate in has disclosed any vulnerabilities, what were they? How long ago were they found? Was it a special bypass, or a simple straight forward XSS? How was it fixed? Ask yourself all these questions and use others kindness of sharing as your starting point to begin testing.
