# Attacking Authentication
## Design Flaws in Athentication Mechanisms
Authentication functionality is subject to more design weaknesses than any other security mechanism commonly employed in web applications.

### Bad Passwords
Many eweb applications emply no or minimal controls over the quality of user's passwords. It is common to encounter applications that allow passwords that are:
- Very short or blank
- Common dictionary words or names
- The same as the username
- Still set to a default value

> HACK STEPS
>> Attempt to discover any rules regarding password quality:
>> 1. Review the website for any description of the rules.
>> 2. If self-registration is possible, attempt to register several accounts with different kinds of weak passwords to discover what rules are in place.
>> 3. If you control a single account and password change is possible, attempt to change your password to various weak values.


### Brute-Forcible Login
Administrative passwords may be weaker than the password policy allows. They may have been set before the policy was in force, or they may have been set up through a different application or interface.

### Verbose Failure Messages
Many authentication mechanisms disclose usernames either implicitly or explicitly. In a web mail account, the suername is often the e-mail address, which is common knowledge by design, Many other sites expose usernames within the application without considering the advantage this grants to an attacker, or generate usernames in a way that can be predicted (for example, user1842, user 1843, user1844).

> HACK STEPS
>> 1. If you already know one valid username (for example, an account you control), submit one login using this username and an incorrect password, and another login using a random username.
>> 2. Record every detail of the server's responses to each login attempt, including the status code, any redirects, information displayed on-screen, and any differences hidden in the HTML page source. Use your intercepting proxy to maintain a full history of all traffic to and from the server.
>> 3. Attempt to discover any obvious or subtle differences in the server's reponses to the two login attempts.
>> 4. If this fails, repeat the exercise everywhere within the application where a username can be submitted (for example, self-registration, password change, and forgotten password).
>> 5. If a difference is detected in the server's responses to valid and invalid usernames, obtain a list of common usernames. Use a custom script or automated tool to quickly submit each username, and filter the responses that signify that the username if valid.
>> 6. Before commencing your enumeration exercise, verify whether the application performs any account lockout after a certain number of failed login attempts. If so, it is desirable to desing your enumeration attack with this fact in mind. For example, if the application will grant you only three failed login attempts with any given account, you run the risk of "wasting" one of these for every username you discover through automated enumeration. Therefore, when performing your enumeration attack, do not submit either a single common password such as **password1** or the username itself as the password. If password Quality rules are weak, it is higly likely that some of the attempted logins you perform as part of your enumeration exercise will succeed and will disclose both the username and password in a single hit. To set the password field to be the same as the username, you can use the "battering ram" attack mode in Burp Intruder to insert the same payload at multiple positions in your login request.


In addition to the login functionality itself, there may be other sources of information where you can obtain valid usernames. Review all the source code comments discovered during application mapping to identify any apparent usernames. Any e-mail addresses of developers or other personnel within the organization may be valid usernames, either in full or just the user-specific prefix. Any accessible logging functionality may disclose usernames.

### Vulnerable Transmission of Credentials
Depending on the user's location, potential eavesdroppers may reside:
- On the user's local network
- Within the user's IT department
- Within the user's ISP
- On the Internet backbone
- Within the ISP hosting the application
- Within the IT department managing the application

Any of these locations may be occupied by authorized personnel but also potentially by an external attacker who has compromised the relevant infrastructure through some other means. Even if the intermediaries on a particular network are believed to be trusted, it is safer to use secure transport mechanisms when passing sensitive data over it.

> HACK STEPS
>> 1. Carry out a successful login while moitoring all traffic in both directions between the client and server.
>> 2. Identify every casae in which the credentials are transmitted in either direction. You can set interception rules in your intercepting proxy to flag messages containing specific strings.
>> 3. If any instances are found in which credentials are submitted in a URL query string or as a cookie, or are transmitted back from the server to the client, understand what is happening, and try to ascertain what purpose the application developers were attempting to achieve. Try to find every means by which an attacker might interfere wiht the application's loginc to compromise other user's credentials.
>> 4. If any sensitive information is transmitted over an unecrypted channel, this is, of course, vulnerable to interception.
>> 5. If no cases of actual credentials being transmitted insecurely are identified, pay close attention to any data that appears to be encoded or obfuscated. If this includes sensitive data, it may be possible to reverse engineer the obfuscation algorithm.
>> 6. If credentials are submitted using HTTPS but the login form is loaded using HTTP, the application is vulnerable to a man-in-the-middle attack, which may be used to capture credentials.


### Password Change Functionality
If the password change form is accessible only by authenticated users and does not contain a username field, it may still be possible to supply an arbitrary username. The form may store the username in a hidden field, which can easily be modified. If not, try supplying an additional pararmeter containing the username, using the same parameter name as is used in the main login form. This trick sometimes succeeds in overriding the username of the current user, enabling you to brute-force the credentials of other users even when this is not possible at the main login.

> HACK STEPS
>> 1. Identify any password change functionality within the application. If this is not explicitly linked from published content, it may still be implemented. 
>> 2. Make various requests to the password change function using invalied usernames, invalied existing passwords, and mismatched "new password" and "confirm new password" values.
>> 3. Try to identify any behavior that can be used for username enumeration or brute-force attacks.


### Forgotten Password Functionality
Even if the application does not provide an on-screen field for you to provide an e-mail address to receive the recovery URL, the application may transmit the address via a hidden form field or cookie. This presents a double opportunity: you can discover the e-mail address of the user you have compromised, and you can modify its value to receive the recovery URL at an address of your choosing.

> HACK STEPS
>> 1. Identify any forgotten password funcitonality within the application. If this is not explicitly linked from published content, it may still be implemented.
>> 2. Understand how the forgotten password function works by doing a complete walk-through using an account you control.
>> 3. If the mechanism usees a challege, determine whether users can set or select their own challege and response. If so, use a list of enumerated or common usernames to harvest a list of challenges, and review this for any that appear easily guessable.
>> 4. If the mechanism uses a password "hint", do the same exercise to harvest a list of password hints, and target any that are easily guessable.
>> 5. Try to identify any behavior in the forgotten password mechanism that can be exploited as the basis for username enumeration or brute-force attacks.
>> 6. If the application generates an e-mail containing a recovery URL in response to a forgotten password request, obtain a number of these URLs and attempt to identify any patterns that may enable you to predict the URLs issued to other users. Employ the same techniques as are relevant to analyzing session tokens for predictability.

### "Remember Me" Functionality
> HACK STEPS
>> 1. Activate any "remember me" functionality, and determine whether the functionality indeed does fully "remember" the user or whether it remembers only his username and still requires him to enter a password on sub-sequent visits. If the latter is the case, the functionality is much less likely to expose any security flaw.
>> 2. Closely inspect all persistent cookies that are set, and also any data that is persisted in other local storage mechanisms, such as Internet Explorer's userData, Silverlight isolated storage, or Flash local shared objects. Look for any saved data that identifies the user explicitly or appears to contain some predictable identifier of the user.
>> 3. Even where stored data appears to be heavily encoded or obfuscated, review this closely. Compare the results of "remembering" several very similar usernames and/or passwords to identify any opportunities to reverse-engineer the original data. Here, use the same technique that are described in chapter 7 to detect meaning and patterns in session tokens.
>> 4. Attempt to modify the contents of the persistent cookie to try to convince the application that another user has saved his details on your computer.

### User Impersonation Functionality
> HACK STEPS
>> 1. Identify any impersonation within the application. If this is not explicitly linked from published content, it may still be implemented.
>> 2. Attempt to use the impersonation functionality directly to impersonate other users.
>> 3. Attempt to manipulate any user-supplied data that is processed by impersonation fucntion in an attempt to impersonate other users. Pay particular attention to any cases where your username is being submitted otehr than during normal login.
>> 4. If you succeed in making use of the functionality, attempt to impersonate any known or guessed administrative users to elevate privileges.
>> 5. When carrying out password-guessing attacks, review whether any users appear to have more than one valid password, or whether a specific password has been matched against several usernames. Also, login as many different users with the credentials captured in a brute-force attack, and review whether everythign appears normal. Pay close attention to any "logged in as X" status messages.

### Incomplete Validation of Credentials
> HACK STEPS
>> 1. Using an account you control, attempt to log in with variations on your own password: removing the last character, changing the case of a character, and removing any special typographical characters. If any of these attempts is successful, continue experimenting to try to understand what validation is actually 
>> 2. Feed any results back into your automated password-guessing attacks to remove superfluous test cases and improve the chances of success.

### Nonunique Usernames
> HACK STEPS
>> 1. If self-registration is possible, attempt to register the same username twice with different passwords.
>> 2. If the application blocks the second registratino attempt, you can exploit this behavior to enumerate existing usernames even if this is not possible on the main login page or elsewhere. Make multiple registration attempts with a list of common usernames to identify the already registered names that the application blocks.
>> 3. If the registration of duplicate usernames succeeds, attempt to register the same username twice with the same password, and determine the application's behavior:
>>> a. If an error message results, you can exploit this behavior to carry out a brute-force attack, even if this is not possible on the main login page. Target an enumerated or guessed username, and attempt to register this username multiple times with a list of common passwords. When the application rejects a specific password, you have probably found the existing password for the targeted account.
>>> b. If no error message results, log in using the credentials you specified, and see what happens. You may need to register several users, and modify different data help within each account, to understand whether this behavior can be used to gain unauthorized access to other user's accounts.

### Predictable Usernames
> HACK STEPS
>> 1. If the application generates usernames, try to obtain several in quick succession, and determine whether any sequence or pattern can be discerned.
>> 2. If it can, exptrapolate backwards to obtain a list of possible valid user-names. This can be used as teh basis for a brute-force attack against the login and other attacks where valid usernames are required, such as the exploitation of access control flaws.

### Predictable Initial Passwords
In the most vulnerable cases, all users receive the same password, or one closely derived from their username or job function. In other cases, generated passwords may contain sequences that could be identified or guessed with access to a very small sample of initial passwords.

> HACK STEPS
>> 1. If the application generates passwords, try to obtian several in quick succession, and determine whether any sequence or pattern can be discerned.
>> 2. If it can, extrapolate the pattern to obtain a list of passwords for other application users.
>> 3. If passwords demonstrate a pattern that can be correlated with usernames, you can try to log in using known or guessed usernames and the corresponding inferred passwords.
>> 4. Otherwise, you can use the list of inferred passwords as the basis for a brute-force attack with a list of enumerated or common usernames.

### Insecure Distribution of Credentials
Sometimes, what is distributed is not the credentials themselves, but rather an "account activation" URL, which enables users to set their own initial password. If the series of these URLs sent to successive users manifests any kind of sequence, an attacker can identify this by registering multiple users in close succession and then infer the activation URLs sent to recent and forthcoming users.

> HACK STEPS
>> 1. Obtain a new account. If you're not required to set all credentials during registration, determine the means by which the application distributes credentials to new users.
>> 2. If an account activation URL is used, try to register several new accounts in close succession, and identify any sequence in the URLs you receive. If a pattern can be determined, try to predict the activation URLs sent to recent and forthcoming users, and attempt to use these URLs to take ownership of their accounts.
>> 3. Try to reuse a single activation URL multiple times, and see if the application allows this. If not, try locking out the target account before reusing the URL, and see if it now works.

## Implementation Flaws in Authentication
The authors have identified each of the implementation flaws described here within the web applications deployed by large banks.

### Fail-Open Login Mechanism
> HACK STEPS
>> 1. Perform a complete, valid login using an account you control. Record every piece of data submitted to the application, and every response received, using your intercepting proxy.
>> 2. Repeat the login process numerous times, modifying pieces of the data submitted in unexpected ways. For example, for each request parameter or cookie sent by the client, do the following:
>>> a. Submit an empty string as the value.
>>> b. Remove the name/value pair altogether.
>>> c. Submit very long and very short values.
>>> d. submit strings instead of numbers and vice versa.
>>> e. Submit the same item multiple times, with the same and different values.
>> 3. For each malformed request submitted, review closely the application's response to identify any divergences from the base case.
>> 4. Feed these observations back into framing your test cases. When one modification causes a change in behavior, try to combine this with other changes to push the application's logic to its limits.

### Defects in Multistage Login Mechanisms
It is often assumed that multistage login mechanisms are less prone to security bypasses than standard username/password authentication. This belief is mistaken. Performing several authentication checks may add considerable security to flaws in implementation. In several cases where a combination of flaws is present, it can even result in a solution that is *less* secure than a normal login based on username and password.
