# Recon
"Military observation of a region to loate an enemy or ascertain strategic features". The same thing applies to hacking: Observation of our target's infrastructure, asses, applications and their features.

- Asset Discovery - Domain names, Subdimains, IP addresses, Scanning for open ports
- Content Discovery - Files or folders via brute force, Hidden endpoints or functionality


Recon is more importat because it allows you to extend your attack surfaces especially when it coes down to bug bounties for organization like Google, Facebook, Verizon Media, Snapchat, or GM where they include all of their digital assets in their scope.

Purpose:
- A bigger attack surface
- Dev/Staging/QA environments
- Sensitive Information (API Documentation, Logs, Backups etc)


## Asset Discovery
Asset Discovery consists of finding all the digital online assets owned by a particular company. For example: Google owns google.com, YouTube.com, nest.com (acquisition), and a tone of other assets that may be a part of their bug bounty program. You can usually find these through searching on Google, Crunchbase, or Wikipedia.

Each of these assets have a domain and each domain may have its own subdomains. For example Google.com has mail.google.com, drive.google.com, cloud.google.com, store.google.com and more.

You can identify these doains pasively through Google or other sources.
`site:uber.com -www`

Services like crt.sh, censys.io, and shodan allow you to search throguh their data and look for certificates for a particular organization. if a subdomain doesn't have a SSL certificate, then we may have to rely on Google or rely on tools that enumerate subdomains via Brute-force.

| Certificate Transparency & JS files                                                                       | Brute-force                                                                           |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| censys.io<br>crt.sh<br>shodan.io<br>amass                                                                 | Use a dictionary file to enumerate available subdomains with tools like massdns amass |
| Look for routes and understand how the endpoints work and fuzz them<br>manually<br>JSParser<br>LinkFinder | dirsearch<br>ffuf<br>wfuzz<br>gobuster                                                |



## Content Discovery 
Content discovery helps us to find additional/sensitive folders, endpoints (files), documentation, or features that may not be directly accessible on the site. This also includes finding administration panels, files with sensitive debug/diagnosis information, zip documentation or hidden features available to for users with higher privileges. This can be done by crawling the site using Burp Suite or by using other tools.

Port scanning is another great way to extend your attack surface. Nmap or masscan allow you to scan for other open ports which may be running a web application.



## Recon - Final Picture
- Nmap indicates that port 80, 443 and 8443 are open 
- Directory brute force shows /admin/ is returning a 403 response code
- You brute force for more files/directories within /admin/
- /adin/users.php returns 200 indicating that you have unzuthenticated access
- Repeat on other domains, subdomains, ports, or subfolders


## Tools 
- crt.sh
	`curl -s https://crt.sh/\?q=%25.<domain name>\&output\=json | jq -r '.[].name_value' | sed 's/\*\.//g' | sort -u | httprobe -c 50`
	we can also do screenshots by piping it through "aquatone".
	
- amass
- seclists' **raft-large-words.txt** 