# DNS Enumeration
The _Domain Name System(DNS)_ is one of the most critical systems on the internet and is a  distributed database responsible for translating user-friendly domian names into IP addresses.

This is facilitated by a hierarchical structure that is divided into several zones, starting with the top-level root zone. 

Each domain can use different types of DNS records. Some of the most common types of DNS records include:
- NS - Nameserver records contain the name of the authoritative servers hosting the DNS records for a domain.
- A - Also known as a host record, the "a record" contains the IP address of a hostname.
- MX - Mail Exchange records contain the names of the servers responsible for handling email for the domain. A domain can contain multiple MX records.
- PTR - Pointer Recrods are used in reverse lookup zones and are used to find the records associated with an IP address.
- CNAME - Canonical Name Records are used to create aliases for other host records.
- TXT - Text records can contain any arbitrary data and can be used for various purposes, such as domain ownership verification.

Due to the wealth of information contained within DNS, it is often a lucrative target for active information gathering.

````
kali@kali:~$ host www.megacorpone.com
www.megacorpone.com has address 38.100.193.76
````

By default the host command looks for an A record, but we can also query other fields, such as MX or TXT records. To do this, we can use the -t option to specify the type of records we are looking for:
````
kali@kali:~$ host -t mx megacorpone.com 
megacorpone.com mail is handled by 10 fb.mail.gandi.net.
megacorpone.com mail is handled by 50 mail.megacorpone.com.
megacorpone.com mail is handled by 60 mail2.megacorpone.com.
megacorpone.com mail is handled by 20 spool.mail.gandi.net.
kali@kali:~$ host -t txt megacorpone.com
megacorpone.com descriptive text "Try Harder"
````

