## Social Media Tools
Just about all organisations now maintain some sort of presence on Social Media. The information a company posts can be very useful for us. We could, for example, use this information to identify potential employees and gain more information about the company and its operations. There are various ways to gather this public information with several tools we have already discussed, such as recon-ng and theHarvester. 

### Social-Searcher
_Social-Searcher_ is a searc hengine for social media sites. A free account will allow a limited number of searches per day. Social-searcher can be a quick alternative to setting up API keys on multiple more specialized services.

The search results will include information posted by the target organization and what people are saying about it. Among other things, this can help us determine what sort of footprint and converage an organization has on social media. Once we've done this, we may choose to move on to using site-specific tools.

### Site-Specific Tools

There are two site-specific tools that we may want to familiarize ourselves with.

_Twofi_ scans a user's Twitter feed and generates a personalized wordlist used for password attacks against that user. While we will not run any attacks during passive information gathering, we can run this tool against any Twitter accounts we have identified to have a wordlist ready when needed. Twofi requires a vlid Twitter API key.

_linkedin2username_ is a script for generating username lists based on LinkedIn data. It requires valid LinkedIn credentials and depends on a LinkedIn connection to individuals in the target organization. .The script will output usernames in several different formats.

