## Google Hacking

Book - "Google Hacking for Penetration Testers" by Johnny Long

Using clever search string operators that allow creative refinement of search queries, most of which work with a variety of search engines. The process is iterative, beginning with a broad search, which is narrowed down with operators to sift out irrelevent or uninteresting results. 

The site operator limits searches to a single domain. We can use this operator to get a rough idea of an organisation's web presence.
Eg: **site:megacopone.com**

#### Side Note
AlienVault OSSIM is a security information and event management (SIEM) platform. Security teams use SIEM tools to monitor applications and network traffic for malicious activities. Usually these tools are only available on internal network. 
<hr>
<hr>

The ext operator could also be helpful to discern what programming languages might be used on a web site. Searches like ext:jsp, ext:cfm, ext:pl will find indexed Java Server Pages, Coldfusion, and Perl pages respectively.

We can also modify an operator using - to exclude particular items from a search, narrowing the results.

Eg: site:megacorpone.com -filetype:html ( to exclude HTML pages from the results )

Look for pages which have an Administrative Console.

We can also use intitle:"index of" "parent directory" to find pages that contain "index of" in the title and words "parent directory" on the pages.

The output usually refers to directory listing pages that list the file contents of the directories without index pages. Misconfigurations like this can reveal interesting files and sensitive information.

The Google Hacking Databse (GHDB) contains multitudes of creative searches that demonstrate the power of creative searching with combined operators.